Hey welcome back! We've got loads in store
for you, in this video, so we're going to
give a basic expl... Blah, I'm going to leave
that in. [Laughs] I'm going to give a basic
explanation of scope, I'm going to use variables
in the appropriate scope, we're going to use
instance variables for global access through
the entire class, we're going to use MonoDevelop's
Auto-Completion to help you code faster, and
you're going to know the difference between
declaring and initializing variables. So,
let's dive in! Here's our Number Wizard game,
so far it's not doing much, it's just responding
to keys, but it's a triumph in its own right,
at this point. What we need it to do next
is start changing its guess, so let's just
look at how it works at the moment. It goes
pick a number or think of a number between
1 and 1,000 and then, it asks whether it's
higher or lower than 500, gives us some instructions,
but then, it just tells us we've pressed keys.
We kind of knew that, so what it needs to
start doing is start changing its guess. So,
that's what we're going to do now. Alright,
let's go into the Up Arrow part of the if
statement, in the Update function. So, when
they push the Up Arrow, we'll continue to
log, for the moment, "Up arrow pressed". But
we need to think about how this min thing would
change, this min variable.How would it change
if they pushed the Up Arrow? Well, if the
guess is higher than 500, if their number
they're thinking of is higher than 500, as
indicated by them pressing the Up Arrow, then
we move our minimum up to that level, because
we know it's an absolute minimum of 500. It's
actually over 500. So, we do the following,
we just try going min... oops, watch out for
auto-completion gremlins... min, now don't
let it Auto-Complete, sometimes it's awkward
to stop Mono auto-completing. There you go,
you can use Control Z. min = guess; Now, you
are getting two pieces of red text, if you
hover over it'll tell you why. "The name min
does not exist in the current context." It'll
say the same thing for guess. Why don't they
exist? They're just up here above in the page,
why can't it see min and why can't it see
guess? Well, firstly it can't see min, because
min is declared inside the Start function,
so it cannot be accessed outside of this function,
it's local to the Start function. The scope
is constrained to the Start function. Alright,
so the way that we're going to sort that out,
for a start, is we're going to move this declaration
and initialization, so the declaration is
where we say int min semicolon, if we said
that. And it turns into an initialization,
when we say and = 1 on the end, when we actually
give it a value. So, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to move the int min, and actually
while we're at it, you know that we're going
to have to move the int max, so let's move
them both to the top of the class here. Right
there, at the same indentation level as the
function definitions. Now, min is happy. So,
only make things higher scope, wider scope,
if you need to, and if it makes sense. OK,
otherwise the fact that it's limited scope
can be very helpful to you. Alright, so that's
the first change. Now, the next thing we need
to do is get guess to be available and to
exist. So, I want you to define a instance
variable, by an instance variable I mean a
variable that is available to the entire instance,
like this max and min. I want you to declare
an instance variable of name guess and of
type int, and I want you to declare it right
at the top there, line 8 on my screen. So,
go ahead and do that now, as a mini challenge.
OK, welcome back! Not too difficult, int guess,
and I'm going to.. If was was to just put
a semicolon that would be a declaration, and
it would actually fix our error down here,
on line 25, because guess is now available,
but I'm going to go farther than that and
I'm going to initialize it to a value of 500.
OK, that's cool! Now, second mini challenge
for you. What I want you to do is instead
of, where this print line has 500, what I
would call hard coded in, I want it to use
the new variable that we've just defined.
So, I want you to change what's on my screen,
on line 17, so that instead of having 500
in the string, I want you to use that new
variable. So, pause the video and go ahead
and do that little challenge, right now. Cool!
OK, welcome back! So, what I've done is deleted
500, put a space in, and then, just said +
guess. So, that's just fine. OK, I'm just
going recap with the things we've covered
and what we haven't in this video, because
there's a lot to cover in this one. Okie Dokie!
Fantastic! Alright, so what we need to do
now then, is we need to think about how we
adjust our guess, so we've made the minimum
equal to the guess, when we press the Up Key.
At some point we're going to have to adjust
what the guess is too. So, have a look at
the code and think about where we would adjust
where the guess is and come back to me when
you've had a think about it. OK, so the place
we need to update our guess is immediately
after we've taken the value of it and put
it into min, so let's take the starting case.
The computer thinks of 500, says is it high
or low? The guy comes in and says, it's higher
than 500. So, you say OK, I'm going to set
the minimum range I'm going to search in now
to 500, the guess, and then, I'm going to
make the guess = to the maximum + the minimum
divided by 2. Why? Because that's how the
binary chop works. What it's saying is well,
imagine the numbers. The minimum would now
be what? Five hundred the maximum would be
1,000, so the guess would end up being 750,
which is exactly half way between the max
and the min. That's what this line does, it
sets the guess to be half way between the
max and the min, quite literally. OK, so that's
great news. And then, what it needs to do
at this point is also make another guess,
so let's go ahead and do that. print ("Higher
or lower than"). Now, what's it going to say
higher or lower than? What's the variable
name? You guessed it, guess great! [Laughs]
Fantastic! And the final thing I'm going to
do here is, I don't want this "Up arrow pressed"
line, so I'm going to comment it. What the
hell is commenting? Well, you do a double
forward slash, on the second forward slash
the whole line goes gray, and that means the
computer will ignore it, but you can still
see it. You can comment it or, if you wish,
you can completely delete it. I'm going to
comment it for now. Let's just see how this
behaves on the Up Arrow. Let's dive over into
Unity and play it. So, if I push the Up Arrow,
it says "Higher or lower than 750". Well,
I go higher, 875, 937, brilliant! If I go
lower, it's only saying "Down arrow pressed",
for now, because we haven't coded it. I say
we haven't coded it, because actually guess
who's going to be coding it? [Laughs] Yeah
you! OK! So, pretty simple, you just need
to do exactly the same type of logic for when
they push the Down Arrow, so try and make
that work for yourself. You can completely
remove this down arrow pressed line, if you
like, and go ahead and go for it now! Alright,
so the way I'm doing it is, I'm getting rid
of the line I've commented out, I don't need
it any more. I'm taking this code, slightly
painfully I'm pasting exactly the same code
in two places, but I don't mind doing that
once; if I'm doing it lots of times with the
same thing. I start to get a little bit scary.
The only thing that's different is it's the
maximum that becomes the guess. If you say
lower, if you say no it's actually lower than
my guess, my computer guesses 500, you're
thinking lower you push lower, then you set
the max to the guess, because you want to
stop exploring anything above 500, otherwise
exactly the same. Yeah, so let's just try
it and see if it works. Alright, so here we
go! I'm going to think of 123. So, higher
or lower than 500? Lower 250! Lower 125! Lower!
63 higher! 94 higher! 109 higher! 117 higher!
121 higher! 123 ooh good! Now, I can keep
pushing, and it'll actually eventually converge
on 124, so what I should have done is pushed
Return to say "I've won!", but it basically
works. The functionality is basically there.
So, I think the next thing I'm going to do
is test the edge cases. Now, how about if
I thought of 1, let's try that, or 0. No,
1, I'm not allowed to think of 0, it says
the lowest number you can pick is 1. So, let's
think of 0 and keep pushing down, down, down,
down, down, down, down. We get to 0 and it
just stays. Sorry, we get to 1 and it just
stays guessing 1. Perfect! So, that edge case,
as we call it, works. The other extreme is
they may have thought of 1,000. Let's see
what happens when we try to get to that, up,
up, up, up, up! And we get to 999, and it
obstinately refuses to guess higher than 999.
Why? The reason it obstinately refuses is
because, when it does this max + min over
2 it rounds down, so it gets to a situation
where the max and the min are both 999, probably;
then, divides that by 2 and ends up back at
999. I think that's what's going on. The solution
to it is to just fix the rounding down by
adding 1 to your max, only once at the very
beginning. Alright, so max = max + 1. Just
do that once in the Start, and then, you'll
find that the rounding problem will have gone
away. So, we go up, up, up, up, up, up, up,
and we get to 1,000 and we don't go above
1,000, Perfectly! Perfectly! That's a new
word. Well, it's not a new word, it's just
the wrong word, but it's fun and it'll do.
OK cool! So, it's basically, basically working
now, with some things we need to tidy up,
but I'm really pleased with the progress in
this lesson. Pat yourself on the back and
see you soon!